Digging its way out of a double-digit hole in the fourth quarter, Valencia prevails over Olympiacos on the road
Making it eight in a row for the visitors in their head-to-head series, Valencia took down Olympiacos, 99-92, in the Peace and Friendship Stadium on Tuesday.
Tucking in 8/13 from the field, Nate Reuvers set his personal best in the EuroLeague to 21 points. “We just stuck to our gameplan. We are a run-and-gun team, and once we got our opportunities, starting to get stops, things got a lot easier,” said the 27-year-old forward/center, describing how his side stormed back from a 13-point deficit by outscoring the hosts 32-16 over the last ten minutes.
Finishing with 14 points, Matt Costello fell one point shy of his 1,000th in the league, but extended a three-point streak to 12 showings with 4/8 from beyond the arc, highlighting a team total of 16/32. Darius Thompson threw in 12 points, six assists, and two steals, with Jean Montero pairing 13 points with eight assists. With Xabi Lopez-Arostegui (leg) remaining sidelined for the Piraeus trip, Sergio De Larrea and Yankuba Sima were left out of the lineup as well.
On the opposite side of the Round 16 fixture, the Reds fell to 8-7 with a third straight loss in Europe’s premier club competition. Newcomer Monte Morris was unavailable for head coach Giorgos Bartzokas, similar to Keenan Evans (leg), Moustapha Fall (knee), Shaquielle McKissic (thigh), and Tyson Ward (leg). Giannoulis Larentzakis was a healthy scratch.
“First of all, we missed so many open shots with great shooters. As long as we released the ball really fast from the traps that they did, we created a lot of open shots. We made them in the third quarter, and that’s why we got a big difference,” explained the 60-year-old Greek tactician, referring to 0/8 three-pointers in the fourth period after making 12/24 over the first 30 minutes. “With this team, you don’t control the pace. They can come back in two or three minutes. Then we missed some crucial rebounds in some crucial plays. We didn’t perform well.”
In a third loss over eight home games this season, Sasha Vezenkov recorded a game-high 24 points. His third straight 20-point outing combined with surpassing the 3,200-point mark. Nikola Milutinov and Thomas Walkup paired their 13 points each with eight rebounds and eight assists, respectively.
In the bottom half of the double-game week, Valencia takes on Maccabi Rapyd Tel Aviv in Jerusalem’s Pais Arena on Thursday, and Olympiacos stays in SEF to face LDLC ASVEL Villeurbanne on Friday.
Read the latest News