The unexpected news of Ettore Messina's resignation as EA7 Emporio Armani Milan head coach earlier this week may have sent shockwaves through European basketball, but his heir, Peppe Poeta, is already showing that the Italian side is in good hands.
Having previously filled in for Messina, who missed the last double-round week due to illness, Poeta led Milan to two straight victories against LDLC ASVEL Villeurbanne and Olympiacos Piraeus, showcasing his credentials in front of a fired-up home crowd.
Formerly an assistant coach to Messina, Poeta was back in charge of the team away at Maccabi Rapyd Tel Aviv, yet this time as the main man at the helm. And his tenure kicked off with a blast, as the visitors crushed Oded Kattash’s side 88-102 at Aleksandar Nikolic Hall on Wednesday evening.
Five Milan players scored in double digits, but there was one who stood out with a complete outing at Aleksandar Nikolic Hall.
Shavon Shields netted a season-high 26 points, having gone 7-for-11 from the field and 9-for-9 from the free-throw line.
He also downed 7 rebounds to go with his 6 assists and 7 fouls drawn. More importantly, his contribution was crucial in the third quarter, where Milan managed to pull away.
An entertaining first half saw the visitors grab a 48-54 lead at halftime following a back-and-forth affair. Shields had already bagged 13 points, 5 assists and 5 rebounds, but Milan’s defense couldn’t contain a red-hot Lonnie Walker, who netted 19 points before the break.
Following a short trip to the locker room, Milan bounced back in the third, making their defense more compact and containing Walker, with the Maccabi guard managing just 2 points in the second half.
“At halftime, I said that we’d given up too many points,” Shields told EuroLeague TV after the game. “We tightened up on defense and put in a really great second half.”
In fact, Milan held one of the EuroLeague’s best offenses to just 14 points in the third quarter. The hosts opened the second half with a 9-2 run, regaining the lead (57-56). But Shields caught fire, scoring 10 of his team’s next 11 points for a double-digit lead that Milan maintained until the end.
“I’m lucky to play with these guys out there,” Shields added. “They’re putting me in good positions to be successful and together we played a really great second half.”
Milan registered 22 assists, shooting 20-for-32 from inside the arc and 13-for-31 from deep while making 23 of its 24 free-throw attempts.
“Honestly, we had a very good game,” Poeta told EuroLeague TV. “In the second half especially, we also played better defense and that was the key. In the third and the fourth [quarters], we had a hell of a defense and we took a huge lead. On offense, the guys played amazing. They shared the ball, they ran, they had a good pace. So, we are happy with this win.”
With Poeta in charge, first as an interim and then as a head coach, Milan has recorded three victories in three games. Having won five of their last six duels, the Italian side will look to carry this momentum into next week’s game at Kosner Baskonia Vitoria-Gasteiz.
“I want to dedicate this win to the ownership and Ettore Messina, who gave me confidence and gave me this opportunity,” Poeta said in the post-game press conference. “It’s their win, because it was their work until two days ago and not getting any credit for that… But I love to see these guys playing and I think we have a long way to go and if we play this way, we can enjoy.”
The Poeta era started with a road victory that improved his team’s record to 7-6 and an extraordinary performance by Shields on both ends of the floor. A new chapter officially opened on Wednesday and the outlook in Milan couldn’t be brighter.